Add Node.js multitenancy guide (#2704)
meilisearch/documentation: learn/cookbooks/multitenancy_nodejs.mdx

---
title: Node.js multitenancy guide — Meilisearch documentation
description: Learn how to implement secure, multitenant search in your Node.js applications.
sidebarDepth: 3
---

# Node.js multitenancy guide

> This guide will walk you through implementing search in a multitenant Node.js application. We'll use the example of a medical application that stores private details of patients' appointments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through implementing search in a multitenant Node.js application handling sensitive medical data.
```

- [Meilisearch JavaScript SDK](/learn/what_is_meilisearch/sdks)
- A Meilisearch server running — see our [quick start](/learn/getting_started/cloud_quick_start)
- A search API key — available in your Meilisearch dashboard
- A search API key UID — retrieve it using the [keys endpoints](/reference/api/keys)

<Capsule intent="tip">
Prefer self-hosting? Read our [installation guide](/learn/getting_started/installation).
</Capsule>

## Data models

In this guide, we'll use a simple data model to represent medical appointments. The documents in the Meilisearch index will look like this:

```json
[
  {
    "id": 1,
    "patient": "John",
    "details": "I think I caught a cold. Can you help me?",
    "status": "pending"
  },
  {
    "id": 2,
    "patient": "Zia",
    "details": "I'm suffering from fever. I need an appointment ASAP.",
    "status": "pending"
  },
  {
    "id": 3,
    "patient": "Kevin",
    "details": "Some confidential information Kevin has shared.",
    "status": "confirmed"
  }
]
```

For the purpose of this guide, we assume documents are stored in an `appointments` index.

## Creating a tenant token

> You will generate a tenant token that will allow a given patient to search only for their appointments. To achieve this, you wil create a tenant token that filters the results based on the patient's ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will generate a tenant token that will allow a given patient to search only for their appointments. To achieve this, you will create a tenant token that filters the results based on the patient's ID.
```

> You will generate a tenant token that will allow a given patient to search only for their appointments. To achieve this, you will create a tenant token that filters the results based on the patient's ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step is generating a tenant token that will allow a given patient to search only for their appointments. To achieve this, you must first create a tenant token that filters results based on the patient's ID.
```

> In a `search.js` file, you can create the tenant token like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `search.js` file and use the following code to generate a tenant token:
```

```js
// search.js

import { Meilisearch } from 'meilisearch'

const apiKey = '<YOUR_SEARCH_API_KEY>'
const apiKeyUid = '<YOUR_SEARCH_API_KEY_UID>'
const indexName = 'appointments'

const client = new Meilisearch({
	host: 'https://edge.meilisearch.com', // Your Meilisearch host
	apiKey: apiKey
})

export function createTenantToken(patientName) {
  const searchRules = {
    [indexName]: {
      'filter': `patient = ${patientName}`
    }
  }

  const tenantToken = client.generateTenantToken(
    apiKeyUid,
    searchRules,
    {
      expiresAt: new Date('2030-01-01'), // Choose an expiration date
      apiKey: apiKey,
    }
  )
  return tenantToken
}
```

When Meilisearch gets a search query with a tenant token, it decodes it and applies the search rules to the search request. In this example, the results are filtered by the `patient` field. This means that a patient can only search for their own appointments.

> 
> Next, you will use this tenant token to perform searches against your Meilisearch instance.

Reviewer: I think you don't need this sentence, since the first paragraph in the next section more or less repeats the same thing. Your call, though, feel free to ignore if you disagree.

```suggestion
```

## Using the tenant token

> Now that you have a tenant token, you will use it to perform searches. Like all search API keys, you can safely use it in client-side code.
> 
> To achieve this, you will need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a tenant token, use it to perform searches. To achieve this, you will need to:
```

> - On the server—Create an endpoint to send the token to your front-end
> - On the client—Retrieve the token and use it to perform searches

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On the server: create an endpoint to send the token to your front-end
- On the client: retrieve the token and use it to perform searches
```

### Serving the tenant token

> This guide uses [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/installing.html) to create a server. You can install `express` by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide uses [Express.js](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/installing.html) to create the server. You can install `express` by running:
```

```sh
# with NPM
npm i express
# with Yarn
yarn add express
# with pnpm

> pnpm add express

Reviewer: I think it would be ok if you picked one package manager and removed the others. This way users don't need to make a choice.

Author: I feel like this is less and less common in the JS world, and the standard is to remind people that they can use different package managers. I will leave it like this for now, but we can definitely revisit later.

```

Then, add the following code in a `server.js` file:

```js
// server.js

import express from 'express'
import { createTenantToken } from './search.js'

const server = express()

server.get('/token', async (request, response) => {
  const { id: patientId } = request.query
  const token = createTenantToken(patientId)
  return response.json({ token });
})

server.listen(3000, () => {
  console.log('Server is running on port 3000')
})
```

> This code creates an endpoint at `http://localhost:3000/token` that accepts an `id` query parameter and returns a tenant token. You will use this endpoint to retrieve the tenant token in your front-end application.

Reviewer: You could possibly move the last sentence ("You will use this endpoint […]") to the beginning of the next sections. Seems more in line with the pacing you set in the rest of the guide.

Author: Thanks for the suggestion!

      const response = await fetch(`http://localhost:3000/token?id=${patientId}`)
      const { token } = await response.json()

      const search = instantsearch({
        indexName: 'appointments',
        searchClient: instantMeiliSearch(
          'https://edge.meilisearch.com',
          token
        ).searchClient
      })

      search.addWidgets([
        instantsearch.widgets.searchBox({
          container: "#searchbox"
        }),
        instantsearch.widgets.hits({
          container: "#hits",
          templates: {
          item: `
            <div>
              <div class="hit-name">
                    {{#helpers.highlight}}{ "attribute": "patient" }{{/helpers.highlight}}
              </div>
              <div class="hit-description">
                {{#helpers.highlight}}{ "attribute": "details" }{{/helpers.highlight}}
              </div>
            </div>
          `
          }
        })
      ])

      search.start()
    })
  </script>
</html>
```

Ta-da! You have successfully implemented a secure, multitenant search in your Node.js application. Users will only be able to search for documents that belong to them.

## Conclusion

> In this guide, you saw how to implement secure, multitenant search in a Node.js application. You then created an endpoint to generate tenant tokens for each user. You also built a search interface using InstantSearch and to make searches using the tenant token.

Reviewer 2: "and to make searches using the tenant token."
This part of the sentence doesn't flow well in my opinion, it feels disconnected.

```suggestion
In this guide, you saw how to implement secure, multitenant search in a Node.js application. You then created an endpoint to generate tenant tokens for each user. You also built a search interface with InstantSearch to make searches using the tenant token
```

---
title: How to implement multitenancy with Node.js — Meilisearch documentation
description: Learn how to build secure, multi-tenant search in your Node.js application.
sidebarDepth: 3
---

# How to implement multitenancy with Node.js

## What is multitenancy?

> In software development, multitenancy means that multiple users — also called tenants — share the same computing resources but have different access to system-wide data.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is really a problem, but it's the exact same sentence we use in the multitenancy and tenant tokens section of the documentation
